you
this lecture is a continued discussion
of probabilistic atomic models in this
lecture we're going to continue
discussing probabilistic models we're
going to talk about a very simple case
where we are interested in just
remaining one popular from one document
so in this simple setup we are
interested in analyzing one document and
trying to discover just one topic so
this is the simplest case of topic
modeling the input now no longer has K
which is the number of topics because we
know there is only one topic and the
collection has only one document also
the in the output we also no longer have
coverage because we assume that the
document that covers this topic 100% so
the main goal is just to discover the
world probabilities for the single topic
as shown here as always when we think
about using a generative model to solve
such a problem we'll start with thinking
about what kind of data we have in the
model or from what perspective within
the model the data or they don't
representation and then we're going to
design a specific model for the
generation of the data from our
perspective where our perspective just
means we want to take a particular angle
of looking at the data so that the model
would have the right parameters for
discovering the knowledge that we want
and then we'll be thinking about the
likelihood function or write down the
microphones to capture more formally how
likely a data point will be obtained
from this model and the likelihood
function will have some parameters in
the function and then we are usually
interested in estimating those
for example by maximizing the likelihood
which would lead to maximum likelihood
estimator and these estimated parameters
would then become the output of the
mining algorithm which means we'll take
the estimated parameters as a knowledge
that we discover from the text so let's
look at the these steps for this very
simple case later we'll look at this is
this procedure for some more complicated
cases so out there are in this case is
just a document which is a sequence of
words each word here is denoted by X sub
I our model is a unigram language model
a word distribution that we hope to
denote a topic and that's our goal so we
will have as many parameters as many
words in our vocabulary in this case m
and for convenience we're going to use
theta sub I to denote the probability of
world W sub I and obviously these Thetas
our eyes would sum to 1 now what does
the likelihood function look like well
this is just a low probability of
generating this whole document that
given such a model because we assume the
independence in generating each word so
the probability of the world the
document would be just a product of the
probability of each word and since some
word might have repeated occurrences so
we can also rewrite this product in a
different form so in this line we have
rewritten the formula into a product
over all the unique words in the
vocabulary W sub 1 through the W sub M
now this is different from the previous
line well the product is over different
positions of words in the document now
when we do this transformation we then
would need to introduce a counter
function here this denotes the count of
word 1 in document
and similarly this is the count of wars
of em invoking because these words might
have repeated occurrences you can also
see if a word did not occur in the
document it would have a zero count and
therefore that corresponding term would
disappear so this is a very useful form
of writing down the likelihood function
that we will often use later so I want
you to pay attention to this just get
familiar with this notation it's just we
change the product over all the
different words in the vocabulary so in
the end of course we'll use theta sub I
to express this like our function and it
would look like this next we're going to
find the theta values or probabilities
of these words that would maximize this
likelihood function so now let's take a
look at the maximum likelihood estimate
problem more closely this line is copied
from the previous right it's just our
likelihood function so our goal is to
maximize this like a loss function we
will find it often easy to maximize the
log like whole instead of the original
like whole and this is purely for
mathematical convenience because after
the logarithm transformation our
function where becomes a sum instead of
product and we also have constraints
over these these probabilities the son
makes it easier to take derivative which
is often leading for finding the optimal
solution of this function so please take
a look at this sum again here and this
is a form of function that you are often
see later also in more general topic
models so it's a sum over all the world
it's in the vocabulary and inside the
Sun there is a count of a word in the
document and this is multiplied by the
logarithm of a probability so let's see
how we can solve this problem now at
this point that the problem is purely a
mathematical problem because we're going
to just refine the optimal solution of a
constrained maximization problem the
objective function is the likelihood
function and in constrained is that all
these probabilities must have something
one so one way to solve the problem is
to use Lagrange multiplier approach now
this command is beyond the scope of this
course but since Lagrangian multiplier
is a very useful approach I also would
like to just give a brief introduction
to this for those of you who are
interested so in this approach we will
construct a Lagrangian function here and
this function would combine our
objective function with another term
that includes our constraint and we
introduce a Lagrangian multiplier here
Lemna so it's an additional parameter
now the idea of this approach is just to
turn the constrained optimization into
in some sense a unconstrained
optimization problem so now we are just
interested in optimizing this lagrange
function as you may recall from calculus
an optimal point that would be achieved
when the derivative is set to zero this
is the necessary condition it's not
sufficiently though so if we do that you
will see the partial derivative with
respect to see the I here is equal to
this and this part comes from the
derivative of the logarithm
funky and this lemma is simply taken
from here and when we set it to zero we
can easily see sirasa by is related to
lambda in this way since we know all the
theta is must sum to one we can plug
this into this constraint here and this
would allows us to solve for lambda and
this is just negative sum of all the
camps and this further allows us to then
solve the optimization problem
eventually to find the optimal setting
for theta sub I and if you look at this
formula it turns out that it's actually
very intuitive because this is just the
normalized accounts of these words by
the document length which is also a sum
of all the counts of words in the
document so after all these math after
all we have just obtained something
that's very intuitive and this will be
just our intuition where we want to
maximize the data by assigning as much
probably the mass as possible to also
observe the world here and you might
also notice that this is the general
result of maximum likelihood estimator
in general the estimator will be to
normalize count and it's just sometimes
the count have to be done in a
particular way as you will also see
later so this is basically analytical
solution to our optimization problem in
general though when the likelihood
function is very complicated we're not
going to be able to solve the
optimization problem by having a closed
form formula instead we have to use some
numerical algorithms and we're going to
see such cases later also
so if you imagine what would we get if
we use such a maximum likelihood
estimator to estimate that one topic for
a single document D here let's imagine
this document is a text mining paper now
what you might see is something that
looks like this
on the top you will see the high
probability water tend to be those very
common words often functional words in
English and this will be followed by
some common words that really
characterizes the topic way out like a
text mining etc and then in the end you
also see various more abilities of words
that are not really related to the topic
but they might be extending mentioning
in that document as a popular
representation you will see this is not
ideal right that because of the high
probability words are functional words
they are not really characterizing a
topic so one question is how can we get
rid of such common words now this is a
topic of the next lecture we're going to
talk about how to use probabilistic
models to somehow get rid of these
common words